# Traits

In Rust, *traits* are a way to describe common functionality between types.
They are similar to *interfaces* in TypeScript or Java.

As an example, we've seen that lots of types have a `.clone()` method.
Here's one way we could add a `.clone()` method to a `Person` struct:

```rust
struct Person {
    first_name: String,
    last_name: String,
}

impl Person {
    fn clone(&self) -> Person {
        Person {
            first_name: self.first_name.clone(),
            last_name: self.last_name.clone(),
        }
    }
}
```

## The `Clone` trait

This would give us access to the `.clone()` method, but we can do even better 
by formally specifying that `Person` is a type which supports the common 
operation of cloning.

We'd do that by adding a `for` to our `impl` like so:

```rust
struct Person {
    first_name: String,
    last_name: String,
}

impl Clone for Person {
    fn clone(&self) -> Self {
        Person {
            first_name: self.first_name.clone(),
            last_name: self.last_name.clone(),
        }
    }
}
```

Note that we also changed the return type of `clone` from `Person` to `Self`.
The `Self` type refers to the type used in the `impl` (in this case, `Person`),
so this is equivalent to what we had before.

The reason we had to change it is that the `Clone` trait, which we referenced
in our `impl Clone for Person` declaration, requires a very specific signature
for `clone`:

```rust
trait Clone {
    fn clone(&self) -> Self;

    fn clone_from(&mut self, source: &Self) {
        *self = source.clone()
    }
}
```

The `clone` method defined in the trait specifies an argument of `&self` and 
a return value of `Self`. It does not specify an implementation for the method,
though, which means that if we want to implement the `Clone` trait for `Person`,
we have to provide a `clone` method implementation which fits that type.

## Sharing code with traits

The `Clone` trait also specifies a `clone_from` method, and this one does have
an implementation. That means that our `impl Clone for Person` declaration will
add this `clone_from` method to `Person`, allowing us to call not only
`person.clone()`, which will run the implementation we wrote by hand, but also
`person.clone_from()`, which was implemented in the `Clone` trait.

This is one way traits facilitate sharing code. Another is that we can write
functions that accept a range of different argument types, so long as those
arguments implement a particular trait.

For example:

```rust
fn print_and_clone<T: Clone>(thing: T) -> T {
    println!("I'm about to clone this: {}", thing);

    thing.clone()
}
```

Here, `T: Clone` declares a type named `T` that we can use in our function's
type. It says that `T` can be any type we like, so long as it implements the
`Clone` trait - meaning we can pass in not only `Person`, but also `Vec`,
`String`, and many others. This code will work as we only call methods on `T`
that are supported by `Clone` (that is, `.clone()` and `clone_from()`).

However, this code will actually give a compile error, because there is another
method being called behind the scenes here. The `println!` macro actually calls
`thing.fmt()` in order to format it as a `String`.

## The `Display` trait

Fortunately, that `fmt` method is part of a trait called `Display`, and
`println!` lets you use string interpolation on any type that implements
`Display`. This is fortunate because it means we can fix our error by changing
`T: Clone` to `T: Clone + Display`, like so:

```rust
fn print_and_clone<T: Clone + Display>(thing: T) -> T {
    println!("I'm about to clone this: {}", thing);

    thing.clone()
}
```

This now says that `T` must implement both the `Clone` and `Display` traits,
meaning it supports both `.clone()` and `.fmt()`.

There's a very similar trait to `Display` called `Debug`. It also formats
values as strings, but it does so in a way that's intended to help you debug
things rather than to be shown to end users. You can use `Debug` instead of 
`Display` in `println!` (and similar macros like `format!`) by using `{:?}` 
instead of `{}`, like so:

```rust
println!("I'm about to clone this: {:?}", thing);
```
