# Numbers

## Integers

Here's a function that takes an 8-bit integer and returns it multiplied by 2.

```
fn double(integer: i8) -> i8 {
    return integer * 2;
}
```

This `double` function's argument is named `integer`, and it has the 
type `i8` - which is short for "8-bit integer." The `-> i8` says that 
this function also returns an `i8`.

An `i8` can store numbers as high as 127 and as low as -128. There are also
bigger numbers, like `i16`, `i32`, `i64`, and `i128`, which can store bigger
numbers. Smaller numeric types use less memory, which can improve performance.

## Unsigned Integers

Rust also has *unsigned* integers, which are never negative.

```
fn triple(unsigned_integer: u8) -> u8 {
    let answer = unsigned_integer * 2;

    return answer;
}
```

We can pass this `triple` function numbers like 0, 1, or 2, but if we try to
pass a negative number, it won't compile.

Unsigned integers are generally a better choice for values that semantically
should never be negative, like counts or dimensions. They can also store higher
numbers in the same amount of memory; `i8` goes from -128 to 127, but `u8` goes
from 0 to 255.

## Floats

For decimals, Rust has two floating-point numbers: just `f32` and `f64`. There is no "unsigned float" - floats can always be negative.

```
fn halve(float: f32) -> f32 {
    let answer: f32 = float / 2.0;

    answer
}
```

Note that we need to use `2.0` here. `2` is an integer, and wouldn't compile if we tried to use it with a `f32` value.

Also note that we added a type annotation to our `let`. 
Those are usually optional, but sometimes the Rust compiler will say
it needs you to add an annotation to help it out.

Instead of writing `return answer;` we can write `answer` without 
the semicolon at the end of the function. They do the same thing.

Like in many languages, floats in Rust are standard [IEEE-754 binary floating-point numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754#Binary), so 0.1 + 0.2 does not quite equal 0.3. Also, they can become `Infinity`, `-Infinity`, or `NaN` when certain error conditions happen like division by zero or overflow.
