# Casting and Char

## Incompatible numberic types

Here's a function that won't compile.

```
fn add(i8_num: i8, u8_num: u8) -> i8 {
    i8_num + u8_num
}
```

The problem is that these numeric types are incompatible. Rust requires
explicitly converting to a common numeric type.

## Casting with the `as` operator

You can "cast" (that is, convert) between numeric types using the `as` operator:

```
fn add(i8_num: i8, u8_num: u8) -> i8 {
    i8_num + u8_num as i8
}
```

This converts the `u8` to an `i8` by reinterpreting the bits. If the number
being converted is within the range of the destination type (e.g. `i8` ranges
from -128 to 127), the number will be unchanged. However, if the number is 
outside the destination type's range, this conversion will change the number.

For example, the `u8` number `191` is the bit pattern `10111111`. If we run
`as i8` on that number, it will start interpreting the same `10111111` bit
pattern as an `i8` instead of an `u8`. However, `10111111` as an `i8` is -65 
instead of 191. (191 would not fit in an `i8`, since those only go up to 127!)

The `as` operator does this conversion without runtime checks, so if you want
to be sure the number will be unchanged, you'll need to use an explicit check.

- TODO also mention converting int to float, and how it's not just a bitcast then
    also mention converting between different sizes

## Chars

Rust also has a numeric type with a special syntax, called a `char` (short
for "character"). A `char` is a `u32` that has been verified to be a
valid [Unicode scalar value](http://www.unicode.org/glossary/#unicode_scalar_value).

```
let char_val: char = 'h';

// Prints `104`
println!("Unicode scalar value: {}", char_val as u32);
```

You can cast from a `char` to a `u32` with no problem, but casting from `u32` 
to `char` could fail if the `u32` happens to be a number that's not a valid 
Unicode scalar value.

For this reason, Rust only allows using `as char` when casting from `u8`, which 
is guaranteed to succeed because all numbers between 0 and 255 are valid 
Unicode scalar values.
