# Typecasting

## Incompatible numeric types

Here's a function that won't compile.

```rust
fn add(i8_num: i8, u8_num: u8) -> i8 {
    i8_num + u8_num
}
```

The problem is that these numeric types are incompatible. Rust requires
explicitly converting to a common numeric type.

## Converting between numeric types with the `as` operator

You can "typecast" (that is, convert) between numeric types using the `as` operator:

```rust
fn add(i8_num: i8, u8_num: u8) -> i8 {
    i8_num + u8_num as i8
}
```

This converts the `u8` to an `i8`. You can also use `as` to convert between
integers of different sizes (like converting from `i16` to `i32` or `i64` to
`u128`), or to convert between integer and float types (like converting from
`u32` to `f64`).

## Lossy conversions

If the number being converted is within the range of the desired type 
(e.g. `i8` ranges from -128 to 127, and `u8` ranges from 0 to 255), the number 
will be unchanged by the conversion. 

However, if the number is outside the destination type's range, this conversion 
will change the number, so be careful! The `as` operator is designed for maximum
speed - at the expense of graceful error handling - so if the number doesn't 
fall within the range of the destination type, you may be surprised by what `as`
ends up doing to it!

> The `as` operator converts between integer types by reinterpreting bits.
> For example, the `u8` number `191` is the bit pattern `10111111`. If we run
> `as i8` on that number, it will start interpreting the same `10111111` bit
> pattern as an `i8` instead of an `u8`. However, `10111111` as an `i8` is -65 
> instead of 191. (191 would not fit in an `i8`, since those only go up to 127!)

If you want to be sure the number will be unchanged, you can use an explicit 
check. For future reference, the [`.try_into()` method](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/convert/trait.TryInto.html#tymethod.try_into) from the `TryInto` trait
can be helpful for this; we'll talk about methods and traits later on.
