# Tuples

A tuple is a collection of two or more values. Here is a `point` tuple 
containing three values:

```rust
let point: (i64, i64, i64) = (0, 0, 0);

fn get_x(my_point: (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    my_point.0
}

fn get_y(my_point: (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    my_point.1
}

fn get_z(my_point: (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    my_point.2
}
```

You can't dynamically change the type of a tuple at runtime. That means both
that the number of elements can't change at runtime, and also that their
types can't change. 

You can change the values inside a tuple as long as it's declared as `mut`:

```rust
fn set_x(mut my_point: (i64, i64, i64), x: i64) {
    my_point.0 = x;
}

fn set_y(mut my_point: (i64, i64, i64), y: i64) {
    my_point.1 = y;
}

fn set_z(mut my_point: (i64, i64, i64), z: i64) {
    my_point.2 = z;
}
```

If the tuple is not declared as `mut`, then it is immutable.

## Destructuring

You can use *destructuring* syntax to disassemble a tuple into its elements 
without naming the tuple as a whole.

```rust
fn x_plus_y_plus_z((x, y, z): (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    x + y + z
}
```

If you don't want to name all the elements, you can write `_` in place of each
field you don't want.

```rust
fn x_plus_y((x, y, _): (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    x + y
}

fn x_plus_x((x, _, _): (i64, i64, i64)) -> i64 {
    x + x
}
```

You can also use this syntax in a `let` - e.g. `let (x, y, _) = point;`

## Tuples in memory

At runtime, a tuple is a sequence of adjacent bytes in memory.

```
let point: (i64, i64, i64) = (0, 4, 2);
```

This `point` tuple takes up 24 bytes of memory:

* The first 8 bytes are where the first `i64` is stored
* The next 8 bytes are where the second `i64` is stored
* The last 8 bytes are where the last `i64` is stored

When Rust compiles tuple-related logic into machine code, it translates field
names into byte offsets based on their types. For example, `.0` gets compiled to 
"read 8 bytes from the beginning of the tuple" whereas `.2` gets compiled 
to "read 8 bytes starting 16 bytes after the beginning of the tuple."

Since tuples store only their elements at runtime, and no additional metadata,
they are very efficient compared to objects in most object-oriented languages.
However, this also means they do not have as many features as objects, such
as the ability to change the quantity or type of their elements at runtime.

## Unit

There's no such thing as a tuple with one element in it, but there is a
tuple with zero elements in it. Its type is `()` (pronounced "unit") and its 
value is also `()`.

```rust
let unit: () = ();
```

Since `()` can't hold any information whatsoever, it's commonly used as a return
value for functions that perform an effect but have nothing interesting to
return. For example, the `println!` macro returns `()`.

```rust
let println_return_val: () = println!("Hello, World!");
```

Some languages have functions return "void" or have "no return value," but in
Rust, every function has a return value. If the function has nothing useful to
return, by convention it should return `()`.
