# Structs

Structs are syntax sugar for tuples. They are identical at runtime, so there
are no performance tradeoffs. The difference is at compile time: struct
elements are referenced by name rather than by position.

```rust
struct Point {
    x: i64,
    y: i64,
    z: i64,
}

fn new_point(new_x: i64, new_y: i64, new_z: i64) -> Point {
    Point { x: new_x, y: new_y, z: new_z }
}

fn get_x(my_point: Point) -> i64 {
    my_point.x
}

fn set_x(mut my_point: Point, x: i64) {
    my_point.x = x;
}
```

`Point { x, y }` is optional syntax sugar for `Point { x: x, y: y }`.

## Destructuring

You can use *destructuring* syntax to take apart a struct into one or more of 
its fields.

```rust
fn x_plus_y(Point { x, y }) -> i64 {
    x + y
}
```

If you don't want to name all the fields, you can write `..` in place of the
ones you don't want.

```rust
fn get_x(Point { x, .. }) -> i64 {
    x
}
```

You can also use this syntax in a `let` - e.g. `let Point { x, .. } = point;`

## Structs in memory

Tuples can be defined anonymously, but structs require a type definition
before they can be used. This is because structs have the same runtime 
representation as tuples: they are plain data stored in adjacent 
memory locations. 

Because Rust compiles struct elements to memory offsets (like it does with 
tuples), it needs to know which field should be at offset 0, which should be at 
offset 8, and so on. Rather than choosing an implicit ordering, Rust requires 
that you explicitly use the `struct` keyword, and uses the order of those fields 
in your to determine the order they will be stored in memory.

```
struct Arrow {
    x: i64,
    y: i64,
    length: u32,
    direction: f32,
}
```

This `Arrow` struct takes up 24 bytes of memory:

* The first 8 bytes are where the `x: i64` field is stored
* The next 8 bytes are where the `y: i64` field is stored
* The next 4 bytes are where the `length: u32` field is stored
* The last 4 bytes are where the `direction: f32` field is stored

Here, `.x` gets compiled to "read 8 bytes from the beginning of the struct" 
whereas `.length` gets compiled to "read 4 bytes starting 16 bytes after the 
beginning of the struct."
